# Introduction
Lets assume you have a "Hello World" program written in java

```java
package learningJava;

public class Main {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println("Hello World!");
    }
}
```

were going to analyze it

## Use of brackets
- **{} -** Used to define code blocks
- **() -** Used in the declaration and calling of methods
- **[] -** Used in index

## The code itself
**`package learningJava`**
This states the package this code is part of

**`public class Main`**
This is declare on the first line, and what it is doing is declaring a class called `Main`. The closing brackes for this is declared on line 8, meaning everything inside the codelock between those two `{}`s is part of the `Main` class.

**`public static void main(String[] args)`**
This a method which is part of the wider `Main` class, however the method itself is declared with a small m rather than a capital m. It can seen that betewen the `{}`s that it contains a single line of code. As mentioned before `()`s are commonly used to call methods, however in this case they are used in the declaration of a methods. Simmilar to almost all languages, when declaring a new method you put arguments inside the `()` as can be seen here with `String[] args`. Here only one parameter is defined, that being `args`, and from the `String[]` and the fact it contains `[]` we can assertain that `args` is an array

**`System.out.println("Hello World!");`**
This a method call with the parameter `"Hello World!"`

## Dot notation
Dot notation is feature of most programming languages that allow you to use the mtehods of other classes. To demonstate this I would recommend looking in the `codeExamples/Eliza` folder. Inside the `Main.java` file you will find the following code
```java
package codeExamples.Eliza;

import java.util.Scanner;

public class Main {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        var scanner = new Scanner(System.in);

        System.out.println(Doctor.intro());
        
        var userInput = "";
        while (!userInput.equalsIgnoreCase("quit")) {
            userInput = scanner.nextLine();
            String response = Doctor.response(userInput);
            System.out.println(response);
        }
        scanner.close();
    }
}
```
 Now also into this folder is the `Doctor.java` file which contains the code for Eliza.

What the `Main.java` file does essentially is initialises Eliza, and sets up a while loop that continuously calls back to the the Eliza class to simulate a conversation until the word "quit" is typed in. The way it does it is via dot notation, as can be seen in the strings
- `System.out.println(Doctor.intro())` where it prints out the response of the`intro` method of the eliza class
- `String response = Doctor.response(userInput)` where is gets a new response based on the user input
Disecting one of these strings we can see that `Doctor` refers to the object being refrence, and `intro()` refers to the method inside that object

## The `main` method
You may notice that in all of the classes so far, the method that is launched first is the `main` method. The reason for this is because the Java Runtime Enviroment, on startup looks for a special method called `main`. usually you can have only one of these methods. This method has two things that make it distinct
- **It has to be a static method -** more on that later
- **It has to have a specific signature** - This means it needs to include its parameters, aswell as its return type. The return type is the `void` in `public static void`, where void essentially says it returns nothing.